Games are inherently spiritual; if you think
about it.
When you're playing a game, and it's not too
hard, it's not too easy & you're into that
flow state.
You aren't thinking about the future, not
worried about whats gonna happen tomorrow.
You're not angry about what happened yesterday.
Or guilty about the mistakes. You're in the
'now' and that is spirituality.
So,
We wanted to take a game, create a game that
tells a spiritual story, but at the same time
brings it home in a practise. In playing the
game you experience the story of Ramayana.
Ramayana is of the two great Hindu epics.
The other one of being Mahabharat from which
comes the, let's call it Hindu Bible it's
called the 'Gita'. But the Ramayana is about
prince Ram -great leader. Thought to have
lived roughly 5 to 7 thousand years ago. He's
a reincarnation of Lord Vishnu (Krishna)
Perfection and leadership, dedication, and
devotion who's facing his greatest challenge.
The Demon Kind, "Ravana", has kidnapped his
wife, (Sita) and wants to make her his own
wife. Ram is on tight schedule,
he's got get to her, rescue her, To vanquish
the army of demon king Ravana; as quickly
as possible, there's not much time. So he
gives Hanuman, the task of finding her and
delivering his ring to her so she knows that
he's on his way. So, she's not feeling defeated
and she knows there's hope. So, Hanuman, he's
confused, worried; there's no how he's going
to find her; there's no how he's going to
get to her. He know she's far away, doesn't
know where. What he doesn't know also is,
he is actually a son of the wind God. And
he's able to fly. He's forgotten this; and
because of the curse he's forgotten his superhuman
powers. Jambuvan helps him to remember his
powers, helps him to feel confident again
that he's capable of doing. He's on the beach
in Southern India, he starts running on the
beach towards Lanka, feeling his power flowing
through more and more- reaches supersonic
speed creates sonic boom and leaps to Lanka.
Of course he still has to fight through the
demon army and Several major characters. Surasa,
who's demon with snake arms. Simhika, demon
with huge octopus like 200 feet talk. Fight
demon army then vanquish Lankini a demigod
at the end of Lanka before he actually finds Sita.
So how we bring the player to experience this is:
First of all, by using accelerometer in android
and iPhone platform, so when Hanuman is flying
you can steer it like it might playing. In
battles again you're using accelerometer -fighting
some of the demon hordes- you're using accelerometer
like a sword -slashing at the hordes.
It's a 3D game. We have 3D artists in India,
California, New York, Florida. We also use
traditional mobile game controls where you've
joystick thumb control, buttons for jumping,
for slashing, for whirling.
It's a game that we hope, will bring the story
home with fun and family friendly way.